---
layout: home
title: William
---

Hi, there. I'm William, a Master student in Economics at WISE, Xiamen University, China. I'm glad that you are interested in this personal website, which is devoted to share with you all my research works and personal stuff. And I hope that you find yourself enjoyed looking for what you need.

A short bibliography (up to May, 2012) in pdf format could be found here.  And below is a short introduction to my personal research interest.

As a master student in economics, I'm especially interested in the Macroeconomics as well as the Finance. For the former, it has been and will always be a field of evolution and revolution, covering a wide range of fundamentally crucial issues such as how the wealth of one nation is determined, why there exhibits frequently observed fluctuations in almost all the macroeconomic variables, say, aggregate output, employment rate of the whole economy, or the dynamics of price level, or how the monetary/fiscal policy are complemented to improve the performance of the aggregate economy. Concerning the latter, it large deals with the relatively specific issues such as the pricing of financial assets, engineering derivatives taking various forms of interest rates, credits, stock market, or bond market, to name a few. One of my research interests is trying to connect these two closely connected branches of economics, which is now popular labelled as the macro-finance model in the relevant literature. On one hand, the cyclical behavior of the economy as an whole is surely shaping the financial market, with bull market occurring in the mid of economic boom, and bear market in the recession. On the other hand, the performance of financial market in turn would affect the efficiency of the real economy. Examples could be found without much efforts in the history, among them, the Great Depression and more recent Financial Crisis being the typical. Observing this interest linkage between the macro-economy and financial markets, I am aspired by my now supervisor, Prof. Niu, to investigate the transition mechanism of macro-finance. 

One of the basic tools we use to detect the transition mechanism is the term structure of interest rates, which depict the relationship of spot rates of zero-coupon securities and their term to maturity. Thanks to the enormous efforts of the macroeconomists pioneered in this field, we now have inherited quiet fruitful achievements of theories and models dealing with the determinants of the term structure of interest rates. However, history moves. We're still challenged by much more problems concerning the behaviors of interest rates. Among them are the stochastic time-varying shapes of the yield curves for various maturities, the long-run determinants of the equilibrium level of interest rates, and predictability of the returns in the bond markets, etc. All there new challenges call for new explanations to account for the mysterious behavior of the interest rates.

I hope this website would be helpful fro you to gain some degree of understanding this mysterious behaviors. In the future, a brief roadmap will be posted here to facilitate your searching for desired staff. 
